Our scripture texts and article highlight the important
several of submission and why we should submit to Jehovah.
Of course, we find it a pleasure to submit to Jehovah
because we love him.
That's why we submit to Jehovah.
But there is that occasion when submitting to Jehovah is difficult.
It's hard.
Perhaps we have to take a firm stand in front of a posers.
We have to stand up for Jehovah.
That means we stick out
from the world.
That's hard.
What perhaps we have to change something in our personal life
to bring our lives more harmony with Jehovah's will and standards.
That's hard.
What perhaps we want to give whole-hearted support
to an organizational adjustment or arrangement
that we don't fully understand?
That may be hard.
So what can help us?
Confidence that God is with His people.
When we know that God is with His people with us,
then we know He will bless us each time
we're going to make any adjustment in our life
or submit to Jehovah's way of doing things
we're going to get a blessing.
Can we have such confidence?
Absolutely.
In fact, we can say that Jehovah gives us signs
or solid evidence that He is with us.
For example, let's open our Bibles to Isaiah chapter 7.
Let's go back in time
and review this historical account in Isaiah chapter 7.
The background is in verse 1 and 2
during the days of King Ahaz.
Let's see what we can learn.
Now in the days of Ahaz, the son of Joseph,
the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah,
king Risen of Syria,
and Pika, the son of Remalaya, the king of Israel,
came to wage war against Jerusalem
but He could not capture it.
A report was made to the House of David.
Syria has joined forces with Ephraim
and the heart of Ahaz
and the heart of his people
began to tremble like the trees of the forest
shaking in the wind.
Well, it's true the situation was terrifying.
Both the king of Israel and the king of Syria,
they joined forces, they declared war on Judah.
Why?
They wanted to dethrone Ahaz
as the king and replace him with another man,
perhaps one that was not in the line of David.
So what a triumph that would be for Satan
if he could install
his own diabolical dynasty on the throne in Jerusalem.
Would Jehovah allow that?
What did Ahaz do?
What affected it have on him?
Did he show faith and confidence in Jehovah?
He began to tremble in fear.
Verse two says,
tremble in fear like the trees of the forest
shaking in the wind.
No faith at all.
So what does Jehovah do?
Well, verse 11.
Jehovah continued speaking to Ahaz.
Ask for a sign from Jehovah.
Make it as deep as the grave or as high as the sky.
Ahaz just ask for a sign.
I want to help you.
And what does Ahaz say?
No, I'm not going to ask for a sign.
So Jehovah says,
what?
You're not going to ask for a sign?
Well, I'm going to give you a sign.
And that's in verse 14.
Therefore,
Jehovah himself will give you a sign.
Look,
the young woman will become pregnant
and will give birth
to a son.
And she will name him
Emmanuel.
Jehovah assures Ahaz
that he will protect the line of David.
Not just with words, notice, but with a sign.
You're going to have this son.
You're going to see a boy named Emmanuel.
And that name is not just random.
The name means something.
The name means with us is God.
Ahaz with us is God.
I'm not going to allow the covenant
that I made with David to be broken.
Ahaz, I don't tell lies.
Jehovah says I don't tell lies to David.
Psalm 89 verse 35.
Assign.
What happens?
Verse 16.
Jehovah goes more gets more specific.
And before the boy knows how to reject the bad
and choose the good,
the land of the two kings whom you dread
will be completely abandoned.
So notice,
that's exactly what happened.
The birth of Emmanuel held true.
And before the boy was old enough to know
between good and bad,
those two kings,
Pika and reason they were killed.
They were out of the picture.
Why?
Because God is with his people.
That's the lesson in Emmanuel.
Jehovah goes further.
Chapter 8 and verse 10.
And what a warning this is for all of us,
all of those who want to try to oppose Jehovah's way
of doing things.
Notice chapter 8 and verse 10.
There's no conspiracy that can win or somehow
interrupt Jehovah's purpose.
Verse 10.
Devise a plan.
And it will be thwarted.
Say what you like,
but it will not succeed.
For God is with us.
A warning to all those who oppose Jehovah.
In the days of Hezekiah,
you had the Assyrians 185,000 Assyrians find camp
out near Jerusalem.
You're going to die.
185,000 died.
Why?
Because clearly God is with his people
and the royal line of David.
No conspiracy will succeed.
So what does this mean for you and me?
What does this mean for us?
Does it have meaning?
Can we have confidence that God is with us today?
Now let's open our Bibles to Matthew chapter 1 and verse 23.
Matthew 1, verse 23.
Here we have now the angel speaking to Joseph
about the birth of Jesus,
but notice what he says in verse 23.
Look, the Virgin will become pregnant
and will give birth to a son
and they will name him in manual.
There it is again,
which means when translated with us is God.
Do we see the connection?
The name and manual comes again.
This time representing Christ Jesus,
his role, his leadership, his rulership.
The title given to Jesus,
do we see the connection?
The prophecy about a manual is completely fulfilled in Jesus.
He rules as our Heavenly King.
And due to the blessing and the protection of his rulership,
we have every reason to declare with confidence today
with us is God.
Do you see the signs?
Do you see the evidence that Jehovah is giving us
to prove he is with us?
Do you see Jesus living up to that wonderful name in manual?
For example,
several weeks ago,
we had a report from the writing committee.
And despite the obstacles for the past year,
do you recall that report?
The work in the writing department,
art department,
MEPS text processing translation services,
the work didn't stop.
It didn't even slow down.
Bible translations of 2019, 33 were released.
2020, 33 were released.
Add the comments from Wednesday about a country
that is now having more and more Bible studies
and an increase in interested ones and baptisms.
These are more than just updates.
These are more than just statistics.
Do we see them as evidences that with us is God
and that He is backing us up in our undertakings?
That's what we want to understand.
No, we're not perfect.
We'll get there at the end of the thousand year reign
but compare the leadership and rulership of a manual.
Christ Jesus with the world's leadership.
Look what we have.
It's wonderful to contemplate.
So what's the lesson for you and me?
Don't miss the clear evidence that God is with us.
Keep your spiritual vision sharp and clear.
So here's a tip.
After reading a portion of the Bible,
ask yourself,
how did Jehovah keep his word in this situation?
How does this show God is with us today?
Then take that knowledge and assimilate it
into your own life and personal circumstances,
build your confidence in the situation that you are in.
So what have we learned?
One, when we know that God is with us,
we are convinced that He will bless us every time
we have to bring ourselves into submission to Jehovah.
And two, in Ahaz Day, Jehovah assured him
that he would protect the line of David,
not just with words, but with a sign,
a boy and manual with us is God.
Today, Jesus in his role as a manual rules
because our Heavenly King and due to the blessing of his rulership,
we have every reason to declare with confidence with us as God.
The sign of a manual is all around us.
The question is, do we see and appreciate the evidence?